---
layout: article
title: "Literally Living In A Game"
date: 2025-06-26
description: "What happens if your brain is fully connected to a video game from birth?"
categories: philsophy,simulation theory
tags: draft
---

# Literally Living In A Game

As I describe this idea many people will immediately think of the *Matrix* trilogy.

Some key differences

* The *Matrix* is ultimately a power fantasy about what the chosen one is able to overcome. It is a postmodern heavily romanticized hero's journey.
* This thought experiment is primarily about our limitations. It is meant to raise as many realistic questions about our situation as possible.

The main reason I want to point this out early is to anticipate and defend against the accusation that this is sci-fi fantasy or that it is just another interpretation of simulation theory. I don't deny that it has many overlaps with those kinds of ideas, I merely want to emphasize that the focus is on clarifying what we can and cannot know through our own experience.

## Experimental Parameters

A human brain is hooked up directly to a computer that is running Minecraft from birth. The Minecraft server that this brain is connnected to is for the most part a 100% normal server. 

Let's look at the parts of this experiment in more detail.

Brian, the brain boy.

* A child had their brain removed at birth and attached to a computer
* Brian has grown up with all of his sensory input being generated by Minecraft
* Brian has not been told about the real world

Eric, Brian's friend.

* A regular human who is aware of Brian's situation
* Has access to the Minecraft server and is able to login and play via keyboard/mouse

Minecraft

* Almost a completely normal Minecraft server
* Has been modded slightly to support proximity based audio communication
* RNG for the system comes from reading Brian's brain state

Computer hardware

* i7-13700HX
* 32 GB 
* NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060
* The computer runs both the Minecraft server and the client that Brian connects to
* Has whatever is necessary to interface with Brian's brain

## What Would Brian's Life Be Like?

This scenario has brought up a lot of questions for me.

* Which reality is Brian's reality? Minecraft, our world?
* Brian would have no input from the "real" world. Would he still somehow know his reality is "fake"?
* 